Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

33

Ac hiev ing   a De carb oni zed  Soc i e ty

Efforts to Achieve a Decarbonized Society

Approach

Objectives for CO 2 Emissions per Unit from Products and 
Services in Use and Approach to Avoided Emissions 

Approach

GHG Emissions Throughout the Value Chain 

Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050 contains long-term reduction targets for CO 2 emissions per 

unit of 50% by fiscal 2030 and 80% by fiscal 2050 (compared to fiscal 2010 levels) throughout 

Hitachi’s value chain.

The value chain for our products and services encompasses all stages from the procurement of 

raw materials and parts to production, transportation, use, disposal, and recycling. In May 2020 we 

announced an even more ambitious CO 2 reduction target of achieving carbon neutrality, which will 

mean net zero emissions, at our business sites (factories and offices) by fiscal 2030.

Approximately 90% of our value-chain emissions result from the use of our products and services 

after they are sold, and reducing these emissions will be crucial to reducing CO 2 emissions across 

the value chain. However, CO 2 emissions from the use of sold products and services are greatly 

influenced by changes in product sale price and business portfolios. We have established an 

indicator for providing products and services that produce less CO 2 from among products and 

services offering equivalent value, and, recognizing the importance of this matter, have set and 

continue to manage reductions goals for our main products and services on the basis of CO 2 

emissions per unit. Specifically, by fiscal 2030, we aim to reduce CO 2 emissions per unit by 50% for 

products and services at the usage stage and contribute to reducing global CO 2 emissions through 

energy systems that do not emit CO 2 at the operational stage and expanding our new 

decarbonization business using digital technology such as OT and IT.

Additionally, in response to growing investor interest in the long-term impact of climate change on 

financial performance and corporate operations, we actively disclose climate-related information in 

accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 

(TCFD) and also engage in dialogue with investors.

 Ratio of CO2 Emissions at Each Stage of Hitachi Value Chain in Fiscal 2019

Production 4.0%

Transportation 0.1%

Use 86.3%

To reduce CO 2 emissions from the use of our products and services, which make up the largest 

proportion of emissions in our value chain, we have established target reduction rates of CO 2 

emissions per unit from products and services while in use. These rates are based on fiscal 2010. 

Given the unique qualities of the wide range of businesses we engage in, for each product or service 

subject to this initiative, we calculate the reduction rate of CO 2 emissions per unit with CO 2 emissions 

as the numerator and function size*1 as the denominator, and work toward overall reduction.

We also have high expectations for specific long-term CO 2 reduction countermeasures such as 

sales of renewable energy systems with zero emissions while in use and the use of technological 

innovation to replace existing products or services with new versions that provide the same value 

but emit less CO 2 while in use.

The Guidelines on Calculating CO 2 Emission Reductions for Hitachi Group Products and 

Services*2 specify the following three methods for calculating different types of CO 2 emission 

reductions. Figures considered reductions for products and services while in use under the GHG 

Protocol, a global standard for CO 2 emission reduction disclosure, are calculated using method (1). 

Methods (2) and (3) are for avoided emissions.

(1)  Energy-saving feature enhancements

Set a reduction rate of CO 2 emissions per unit (compared to fiscal 2010) based on efficiency 

enhancements such as energy-saving feature enhancement in products and services. Every year, 

calculate reductions in CO 2 emissions considering the production volume of the relevant year. 

(2) Reduction through new systems and solutions based on technological innovation

Calculate avoided emissions as reductions in CO2 emissions due to the adoption of new systems and 

solutions that emit less CO2 while providing equivalent value to existing products, services, and solutions.

(3) Reduction through the deployment of non-fossil energy systems

renewable and other non-fossil energy systems, as compared to grid-supplied electricity (using 

the average emissions factor of the base year, fiscal 2010).

*1  Major functions of products correlated with CO2 emissions.

*2 The Guidelines are based on various standards, including the Guidance on Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions from the Baseline 

Disposal/recycling 0.4%

Calculate avoided emissions as reductions in CO 2 emissions due to the introduction of 

Procurement of raw materials/parts 7.5%

Other (capital goods, etc.) 1.7%

for Electrical and Electronic Products and Systems (IEC TR62726) issued by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), and calculation 

methods established by the government or industrial associations.

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

34

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Contributing to a Decarbonized Society Through the Decarbonization Business

Expanding the Decarbonization Business 

Activities

To achieve a decarbonized society set out in its Environmental Vision, Hitachi is pursuing 

individual employees. In the energy sector, we will promote wider use of renewable energy through 

decarbonization business that contributes to reducing CO2 emissions, including business to provide 

increased efficiency of power transmission and distribution. In the industry sector, we will improve 

products and services with enhanced energy-saving features, business to introduce renewable 

efficiency of industrial equipment like compressors and transformers used at production sites. In the 

energy, and business to offer solutions to improve efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions through 

mobility sector, we will not only work to enhance the efficiency of elevators for buildings and their 

digitalization, such as the use of Lumada. We will expand the decarbonization business by 

security and safety functions through remote monitoring but also to improve the ease of their 

supplying solutions in the five business areas of IT, energy, industry, mobility, and smart life, and 

maintenance. Finally, in the smart life sector, we will contribute to energy management in smart 

help the world mitigate and adapt to climate change. In the IT sector, we will develop work style 

cities and developing, producing, and providing electrification parts for automobiles.

innovation solutions and other digital technologies to help improve the working environment for 

 Decarbonization Business: A Hitachi Focus

IT solutions

Energy solutions

Industry solutions

Mobility solutions

Smart life solutions

  Finance and public-oriented solutions

  Power grid solutions

  Smart logistics

  Promoting digital solutions

  Data center

  Developing smart data centers

  Servers/storage

  Enhancing energy-saving features of 

servers and storage

  Enhancing efficiency of power 

transmission/distribution

  Improving energy-saving features 
through fully IT-enhanced logistics

  Energy management

  Factory automation

  Advancing smart energy management 

  Enhancing energy efficiency through 

  Promoting power generation systems 

  Enhancing efficiency of water and 

to reduce peak electricity demand

  Power generation

using wind and other non-fossil  
energy sources

shorter lead times

  Water business

sewage systems

  Industrial products

  Enhancing efficiency of industrial 

products

  Railways

rolling stock

  Enhancing energy-saving features of 

  Developing smart operating systems
  Enhancing maintenance service 
efficiency through rolling stock 
monitoring

  Elevators

  Enhancing energy-saving features of 
elevators and escalators through 
replacement

  Enhancing energy efficiency through 

total building solutions

  Smart cities

  Reducing CO2 through comprehensive 
urban energy management solutions

  Vehicle electrification

  Promoting electrification through electric 

powertrain systems

  Home appliances

  Enhancing energy efficiency of home 

appliances

  Promoting connected home appliances

  Enhancing energy-saving features of 

  Smart therapies

medical devices

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

35

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Achieving CO 2 Emission Reductions During the Use of 
Products and Services 

Initiatives for Improving Environmental Performance of Products and Services 

Goals

Activities

  Promoting environmentally conscious process: In accordance with the IEC 62430*1 criteria, promote 
environmentally conscious process in designing and developing products and services including by 

302-5

305-4

305-5

meeting environmental regulatory requirements and ascertaining the environment-related needs of our 

 
Hitachi set a target for fiscal 2019 of 19% reduction in CO2 emissions per unit from products and 

services compared to the base year of fiscal 2010, and our actual rate of reduction in fiscal 2019 

was 19%. This is due to an increase in sales of high energy-saving products, including industrial 

equipment and equipment used for social infrastructure.

stakeholders within our existing management system.
  Implementing Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs): For our main, priority products, quantitatively evaluate 
their burden on the global environment in such areas as the consumption of mineral resources, fossil 

fuels, and water resources, as well as their impact on climate change and air pollution, disclose the 

results to our stakeholders, and utilize them in improving the design of next-generation products.

Environmental Action Plan for 2021 Management Values 

*1 The standard developed by the International Electrotechnical Commission concerning environmentally conscious design for electrical and 

electronic products.

 Reduction in CO2 Emissions per Unit (Hitachi Group)

 FY 2010 (base year)

CO2 emissions from 
use of products

Function size*1

100 %

From base year

19% reduction

FY 2019 reduction target: 19%

 FY 2019

CO2 emissions from 
use of products

Function size

81%

Reducing CO2 Emissions Throughout the Value Chain 

Case Study

Project

Department, Group company

Activity

*1 Major functions of products correlated to CO2 emissions.

Reducing CO2 
emissions using IT

Systems & Services 
Business, Hitachi, Ltd.

Reducing CO2 emissions by 42% through JP1/
Client Process Automation IT products

https://www.hitachi.com/environment/
casestudy/2019/case01.html

Improving Environmental Performance of Products and Services 
Through Environmentally Conscious Design Assessments 

System

We conduct independently developed Environmentally Conscious Design Assessments for all products 

and services involving a design process to steadily improve environmental performance throughout the 

Group. We identify 30 environmental impact items that may cause climate change, resource depletion, 

and ecosystem degradation across the entire life cycle of products and services, assess the 

environmental burden reduced through our business activities in multifaceted ways, and strive for 

further reductions.

New G-Series air 
compressors

Hitachi Industrial 
Equipment Systems

Reducing CO2 emissions by about 6% through 
improvement in air compressor efficiency

https://www.hitachi.com/environment/
casestudy/2019/case02.html

Participation in the 
Carbon Footprint 
Communication 
Program

Services & Platforms 
Business Unit, Hitachi, 
Ltd.

New verification and approval of Hitachi Virtual 
Storage Platform 5000 Series enterprise storage 
(four models in series) 

https://www.hitachi.com/environment/
casestudy/2019/case03.html

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

36

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Contributing to a Decarbonized Society at Business Sites (Factories and Offices) 

CO 2 Emission Reductions at Business Sites (Factories and Offices) 
and Hitachi Carbon Neutrality 2030 

Policy

Hitachi is working toward achieving its target of reducing CO2 emissions from our business sites 

(factories and offices) by 50% compared to fiscal 2010 by fiscal 2030, as set out in Hitachi 

Environmental Innovation 2050, our long-term environmental targets.

To accelerate these efforts, in 2020 we announced an additional goal of realizing carbon neutrality 

by fiscal 2030 at all business sites (factories and offices). We call this goal “Hitachi Carbon Neutrality 

Under Hitachi Carbon Neutrality 2030, we aim to be carbon neutral by effectively reducing 

emissions by 100% by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2010, instead of the original 50% reduction 

target. The following initiatives will help us achieve the new target.

Major Initiatives for Reducing CO2 Emissions at Business Sites (Factories and Offices)

  Improve equipment efficiency by introducing and upgrading to high-efficiency equipment
  Reduce energy use during production by raising efficiency through the use of Lumada and 
production technologies cultivated over long years of experience
  Optimize equipment operation and stop energy waste by installing smart meters
  Review product designs and processes

  Build new facilities with high energy efficiency
  Combine and integrate existing facilities
  Install energy-saving equipment and optimize equipment operation in collaboration with 
building owners

  Install renewable energy systems
  Use electricity from renewable sources
  Adopt the non-fossil fuel energy certificate*1 system
  Introduce off-balance-sheet solar power generation for self-consumption
  Promote investment in carbon-reduction equipment through adoption of the Hitachi Internal 
Carbon Pricing (HICP) framework

2030.”

Factories

Offices

Factories and offices

Introducing the Hitachi Internal Carbon Pricing Framework 

System

To promote CO2 reduction at our business sites (factories and offices), in fiscal 2019 we started 

operating the Hitachi Internal Carbon Pricing*1 (HICP) framework, which provides sites with 

incentives to invest in necessary new equipment.

The HICP framework is an internal system that aims to achieve CO2 reduction effectively. It helps 

visualize CO2 reduction from investment in equipment at factories and offices and encourage 

investment in new equipment that drives decarbonization through energy-saving and other 

measures as an extension of the established decision-making process on investment.

Specifically, with reference to emissions trading and carbon taxes globally, we establish 

company-internal carbon prices, convert into monetary value the effect of CO2 reduction due to 

investment in equipment that contributes to decarbonization, add this to the value of energy 

reduction effects, and use the result to evaluate the effect of our investment. By applying incentives 

like these, we aim to further expand our investment in equipment that contributes to 

decarbonization.

As the climate change issue deepens, we anticipate risks like increased burdens from carbon 

taxes and new emissions trading frameworks to emerge. By incorporating those risks into our 

equipment investment decisions, we can not only make investment in equipment that contributes to 

decarbonization a higher priority, but also minimize the future risks of climate change and make 

ourselves more resilient. The introduction of the HICP framework is a key part of this process.

Achievements in FY 2019

Establishing and implementing the HICP framework resulted in additional investment in energy-

saving equipment. Such equipment did not receive investment before due to low returns, but it 

qualified under the HICP framework as it is expected to help reduce CO2 emissions. Fiscal 

2019 saw 35 cases of investment in energy-saving equipment with a total investment of ¥260 

*1 Credits assigned to energy certified as having been produced from renewable sources. Purchasers of such credits can offset their 

million, contributing to an annual reduction of 1,356 tons of CO2 emissions. The annual amount 

conventional energy use instead of implementing their own reduction measures.

of CO2 emission reductions from our business sites improved 2% compared to the previous 

Toward the goal of Hitachi Carbon Neutrality 2030, we have formulated a plan to make three 

existing factories in fiscal 2020 and a total of more than seven factories in fiscal 2021 carbon neutral. 

We believe that the technologies and experiences developed through efforts to achieve our carbon 

neutrality targets will help us offer business proposals accurately responding to our customers’ 

decarbonization needs, thereby greatly contributing to expanding our new business opportunities.

fiscal year.

*1 Internal carbon pricing: An in-house tool to assess in monetary terms the amount of carbon generated or reduced in order to voluntarily 

make investment decision and conduct risk management.

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

37

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

 Hitachi Internal Carbon Pricing (HICP) Framework

CO2 reduction effects

CO2 reduction effects  
(in monetary terms)

 
At Hitachi, the achievement of environmental targets for individual business sites (factories and offices) set 

302-1

302-4

305-4

305-5

Actions and Achievements 

Activities 

s
m
r
e
t
 
y
r
a
t
e
n
o
m
 
n
i
 
t
c
e
f
f
e
 
t
n
e
m
t
s
e
v
n

I

Energy  
reduction effect

Energy  
reduction effect

Before introducing HICP 
framework

After introducing HICP 
framework

Set internal carbon prices based on future risks like increased burden from 
carbon taxes and emissions trading
Convert effects of CO2 reduction from investment in equipment that 
contributes to decarbonization into monetary value

Evaluate effect of investment by adding monetary effect of CO2 reduction to 
previously calculated monetary value of effects of energy reduction through 
investment

Increase priority of investment in equipment that contributes to 
decarbonization

Encourage investment in equipment 
that contributes to decarbonization

Renewable energy

High-efficiency equipment

by the Environmental Action Plan for 2021 is measured by CO2 emissions per unit. Because we conduct 

business in various sectors, the KPI of CO2 emissions per unit for each business site is calculated using the 

site’s CO2 emissions as the numerator and its activity amount*1 as the denominator.

In fiscal 2019, the reduction rate of CO2 emissions per unit was 5% against a target of 7% 

(compared to the base year of fiscal 2010). Part of the reason for not hitting the target was a lower 

efficiency of facility use due to a decrease in sales. There were also some business divisions that 

could not achieve expected reductions in CO2 emissions per unit due to a failure to appropriately 

respond to a reduction in the fixed power allocation linked to sales.

We report the total CO2 emissions from our entire Group, including CO2 emissions from power 

plants selling electricity. Total CO2 emissions in fiscal 2019 decreased by approximately 599 kt-CO2 

compared to fiscal 2018*2 due to the sale of our power plants and a drop in sales. CO2 emissions by 

region, excluding those from power plants, fell as a result of reorganization of business sites and a 

decline in sales in Japan. In the Americas, a materials company that became a reporting company in 

fiscal 2016 accounts for a large portion of CO2 emissions, and we will look into ways to promote the 

use of inexpensive renewable energies.

*1 A value closely related to CO2 emissions at each business site (for example, production quantity, output, building floor space, and number of employees).

*2 The CO2 electrical power conversion factor for total CO2 emissions is market-based.

Environmental Action Plan for 2021 Management Values 

 Reduction in CO2 Emissions per Unit (Hitachi Group) 

 FY 2010 (base year)

CO2 emissions*1
4,703 kt-CO2

Activity amount

100 %

From base year

5% reduction

FY 2019 reduction target: 7%

 FY 2019

CO2 emissions
4,441 kt-CO2 

Activity amount

95%

*1 CO2 emitted within the organization (Scopes 1 and 2).

applied across the entire Hitachi Group.

Notes:  •  As the CO2 electrical power conversion factor in calculations of CO2 emissions per unit, a unified factor of 0.530 kgCO2/kWh is 

• The Environmental Action Plan’s management values do not include amounts for our power plants in fiscal 2010 (base year) or fiscal 2019. 

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

38

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

 CO2 Emissions (Hitachi Group’s factories, offices, and power plants) 

(kt-CO2/year)

6,000

4,500

3,000

1,500

0

5,322

10

5,433

16

4,346

7
375
211
402

1,454*1

1,519*1

265
470

283
499

4,973

15

4,374

30

2,541

2,392

2,377

810

732

739

1,343*1

236
540

2,285

554

1,228*1
286
572

2,030

228

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

(FY)

 Power plants*2 

 Japan 

 Rest of Asia (excluding China and Japan) 

 China 

 Americas 

 Europe

*1 Includes 1,070 kt-CO2 (fiscal 2016), 1,163 kt-CO2 (fiscal 2017), 1,112 kt-CO2 (fiscal 2018), and 950 kt-CO2 (fiscal 2019) emitted by 

a materials company that became a reporting company in fiscal 2016.

*2 Emissions from power plants selling electricity in Japan are included in the CO2 emissions data for fiscal 2017 and onward.

Notes:  •  Starting from fiscal 2019’s calculations, Scope 2 emissions were changed from a calculation method using a unified Group-wide 

distance transportation.

electrical power conversion factor to a market-based calculation method, and past data was recalculated based on this. 

Regarding CO2 electrical power conversion factors: in Japan (including power plants), adjusted conversion factors for individual 

power businesses based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used; overseas, the latest values 

for each fiscal year supplied by the International Energy Agency (IEA) as conversion factors for individual countries are used.

 

 

• Energy-related CO2 emissions in fiscal 2019 were 1,489 kt-CO2 (Scope 1) and 2,885 kt-CO2 (Scope 2).

Reducing Transportation Energy Consumption 

Activities 

As part of our efforts to reduce energy output during transportation as well as at our business sites 

(factories and offices), we have established targets for the reduction of transportation energy use per 

unit for each business unit and Group company in Japan. Outside Japan, these targets are voluntary. 

Our business sites are promoting a modal shift to highly efficient transportation methods, improving 

truck loading ratios and taking other measures to reduce transportation energy consumption, and 

switching to the use of eco-cars for in-house operation. Considering a modal shift from truck to rail 

transportation a high priority, we are working toward “Eco Rail Mark company” and “Eco Rail 

certified product” certifications from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism. 

Transitioning from truck to railway transportation is expected to reduce CO2  emissions per unit to 

one-eleventh of its current level, and we plan to continue expanding our use of railways for long-

Achievements in FY 2019
In fiscal 2019, CO2  emissions from transportation within Japan for the Hitachi Group were 88.4 

kt-CO2,

 14.4 kt-CO2  less than the previous fiscal year. To reduce CO2  emissions, we actively 

worked to improve efficiency when loading products for transportation and increase our use of 

coordinated transportation, reducing CO2  emissions by more than 10% compared to fiscal 2018.

Introducing Renewable Energy 

Activities 

Eco Rail Mark Initiatives

We are promoting the use of solar, wind, and other forms of renewable energy at our business sites. 

Going forward, we will accelerate these efforts, aiming to raise the share of renewable energy in our 

total electricity consumption to 2% by fiscal 2030.

Achievements in FY 2019

Company

Certification

Hitachi, Ltd.

Eco Rail Mark company*1
Eco Rail certified product*2

Hitachi-Omron Terminal Solutions

Eco Rail Mark company*1

In fiscal 2019, Hitachi generated a total of 18,022 MWh of renewable energy for its own use, 

Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems

Eco Rail certified product*2

which is 2.6 times the amount generated in the previous fiscal year. Renewable energy 

*1 A mark conferred on companies using railways for more than 15% of freight land transportation covering 500 km or more; for 15,000 tons 

generated by equipment installed at business sites (factories and offices) accounted for 0.3% of 

or more in volume per year; or for more than 15 million ton-kilometers in volume × distance per year.

*2 A mark conferred on products using railways for more than 30% of freight land transportation covering 500 km or more in terms of volume × distance.

the electricity consumed by the entire Hitachi Group.

About the Eco Rail Mark 
http://www.mlit.go.jp/tetudo/ecorailmark/
ecorailmark-english.html

Major Business Sites Using Renewable Energy

Hitachi Computer Products (America) 

11,325 MWh/year of wind power used

Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery (India)  12,629 MWh/year of solar power generated

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

39

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Energy Savings in Eco-Factories & Offices 

Case Study

Project

Department, Group company

Activity

Promoting measures for carbon neutrality
Increasing use of renewable energy with off-balance-sheet 
solar power generation systems for self-consumption

Hitachi Automotive Systems, Hitachi High-Tech 
Manufacturing & Service

Reduction in CO2 emissions of about 820 t-CO2 by increasing use of renewable energy

https://www.hitachi.com/environment/
casestudy/2019/case04.html

Reducing CO2 by increasing efficiency of cupola furnaces 
and utilizing unused energy through heat recovery

Hitachi Metals

Reduction in CO2 emissions by 15% compared to previous fiscal year through initiatives 
including increased efficiency of cupola furnaces and heat recovery

https://www.hitachi.com/environment/
casestudy/2019/case05.html

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

40

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Climate-related Financial Information Disclosure (Based on TCFD Recommendations)

In June 2018, Hitachi announced its endorsement of the recommendations by the Financial Stability 

Board (FSB)’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The following contains key 

Strategy 

102-11 102-15 102-29

201-2

Policy 

The Environmental Vision and Hitachi 
Environmental Innovation 2050  

Efforts to Achieve a Decarbonized Society 

climate-related financial information in line with the TCFD’s recommendations.

We are responding to climate change by fulfilling our responsibilities as a global company in 

Governance 

achieving a decarbonized society. Taking note of the total CO2 reductions required globally under the 

RCP 2.6*1 and RCP 8.5*2 scenarios of the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel 

Structure 

on Climate Change (IPCC), we have established long-term environmental targets called Hitachi 

Environmental Innovation 2050 based on our Environmental Vision calling for CO2 reductions 

Hitachi sees climate change and other environmental issues as important management issues. A report 

throughout our value chain of 50% by fiscal 2030 and 80% by fiscal 2050, compared to fiscal 2010.

to the Board of Directors in 2016 was followed by the establishment and announcement of long-

In May 2020 we announced an even more ambitious CO2 reduction target of achieving carbon 

term environmental targets called Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050 containing CO2 reduction 

neutrality, which will mean net zero emissions, at our business sites (factories and offices) by fiscal 2030.

targets for fiscal 2030 and fiscal 2050.

The Board of Directors discusses the Group’s sustainability strategy, including climate change 

from preindustrial levels is kept below 2°C.

measures, as a key component of management strategy. The Executive Sustainability Committee, 

chaired by the president and CEO and staffed by heads of corporate divisions and business units, 

to preindustrial levels.

*1 A Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenario under which, at the end of the 21st century, the increase in global temperatures

*2 An RCP scenario that assumes that emissions will continue to rise, resulting in an approximately 4°C rise in global temperatures compared

meets twice a year to discuss and reach decisions on material environment-related policies and 

measures, including those in response to climate change, and to set the stage for implementation. 

In addition, the Audit Committee of independent directors conducts an audit of sustainability-

related operations once a year, and Hitachi executive officers report on climate-related material 

issues to the committee during the audit.

As for activities outside the company, in 2019 an executive officer in charge participated in the 

TCFD Study Group on Implementing TCFD Recommendations for Mobilizing Green Finance 

Through Proactive Corporate Disclosures, launched by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and 

Identification and Assessment of Climate-related Risks and Opportunities 

The Hitachi Group operates a broad array of businesses around the world, with each business 

having its own set of risks and opportunities. We are responding to the impact of climate change by 

assessing climate-related risks and opportunities in accordance with TCFD classifications. We make 

sector-specific assessments of risks and opportunities for important business sectors that have a 

relatively high likelihood of being affected by climate change. Our assessments are also categorized 

according to time span, namely, short term, medium term, and long term, as defined below.

Industry, and helped compile its report. Hitachi also participates in an industry-government-

Time Spans for Assessing Climate-related Risks and Opportunities

academia initiative called the TCFD Consortium—comprising 164 companies and other 

organizations—as a member of its Steering Committee and contributed to the formulation of TCFD 

Guidance 2.0, announced in July 2020.

Time span

Reason for adoption

Short term

Over the next three years 
from fiscal 2019 to 2021

Corresponds to the three-year management period covered by the 
Environmental Action Plan for 2021, established in line with the 2021 
Mid-term Management Plan

Medium term Through fiscal 2030

Time span of our fiscal 2030 long-term environmental targets

Long term

Through fiscal 2050

Time span of our fiscal 2050 long-term environmental targets

Hitachi’s Corporate Governance Framework and 
Its Features 

Sustainability Strategy Promotion Structure 

Framework for Promoting Environmental 
Governance 

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

41

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Climate-related Risks 

Climate-related Opportunities 

Contributing to a Decarbonized Society Through 
the Decarbonization Business 

As for climate-related business risks, we have followed the TCFD’s classification in considering 

CO2 emissions during the use of our products and services by our customers account for 

(1) risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy in the 2°C scenario and (2) risks related 

approximately 90% of total emissions in our value chain. To achieve the CO2 reduction targets set 

to the physical impacts of climate change in the 4°C scenario, which assumes that efforts to reduce 

forth in our long-term environmental targets and 2021 Mid-term Management Plan, Management 

global CO2 emissions have failed.

Plan, it is essential that we reduce emissions during use. Developing and providing products and 

services that emit zero or very little CO2 during their use will not only satisfy customer needs but 

also help meet society’s demands for reduced emissions. This represents a business opportunity for 

us in the short, medium, and long term and constitutes a major pillar of the Social Innovation 

Business that we are promoting as a management strategy.

Climate-related opportunities

Category

Major opportunities

Main initiatives

Products/
services and 
markets

Increased corporate 
value and revenue from 
expanded sales of 
products and services 
with innovative 
technology that can 
contribute to the 
mitigation and 
adaptation of climate 
change

  Develop and market products and services that contribute to a 
decarbonized society, expand the decarbonization business, and promote 
the development of innovative devices and materials that contribute to 
reducing the environmental burden
  Create solutions that leverage Hitachi’s strengths in operational technology 
(OT), IT, and products, as well as expertise in R&D (high-efficiency, energy-
saving products; high-efficiency production systems using digital 
technology; power generation systems using non-fossil energy that do not 
emit CO2; environment-friendly mobility; and building of smart, 
environmental cities)

Resilience

Provision of solutions to 
address climate-related 
natural disasters

  Provide disaster-mitigation solutions, such as high-performance fire-fighting 
command systems
  Provide construction machinery that enables speedy recovery efforts

(1) Risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy (applying mostly to the 2°C scenario)

Category

Major risks

Time span

Main initiatives

Policy and 
legal

Technology

Increased business costs from 
the introduction of carbon 
taxes, fuel/energy consumption 
taxes, emissions trading 
systems, and other measures

Short to 
long term

Loss of sales opportunities 
due to delays in technology 
development for products and 
services

Medium to 
long term

Market and 
reputation

Impact on sales due to 
changes in market values or 
assessment of our approach to 
climate issues

Medium to 
long term

  Avoid or mitigate increases in business costs, such 
as from carbon taxes, by further enhancing 
production and transport efficiency and promoting 
the use of non- or low-carbon energy sources

  Contribute to reducing CO2 emissions by developing 
and marketing innovative products and services that 
lead to the achievement of long-term environmental 
targets and expanding the decarbonization business
  Promote the development of low-carbon products by 
implementing Environmentally Conscious Design 
Assessments when designing products and services

  In the light of rising investor and market interest in 
climate change and growing expectations of the 
business sector, clearly identify the reduction of 
CO2 emissions in our management and business 
strategy by incorporating reduction targets for fiscal 
2021 in the 2021 Mid-term Management Plan in 
line with our long-term environmental targets

(2) Risks related to the physical impacts of climate change (4°C scenario)

Category

Major risks

Time span

Main initiatives

Acute and 
chronic 
physical 
risks

Climate-related risks to 
business continuity, including 
increased severity of typhoons, 
floods, and droughts (acute 
risks) as well as rising sea level 
and chronic heat waves 
(chronic risks) 

Short to 
long term

  Take into account the possibility of flood damage 
when deciding on the location or equipment layout 
of a new plant. Measures tailored to the water risks 
of each manufacturing site will be strengthened in 
the future based on the results of a water risk 
assessment now being conducted

Hitachi's Approach to Water Risks 

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

42

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Responding to Climate Scenario Risks and Opportunities for Each Business 

Hitachi operates a broad array of businesses, with each business having its own set of risks and 

In selecting the businesses that have a relatively high likelihood of being affected by climate 

opportunities. We therefore selected businesses that have a relatively high likelihood of being 

change, we took many different factors into account and chose those with (1) relatively high CO2 

affected by climate change and examined the business impact of and responses to the 2°C and 4°C 

emissions from the use of products and services, (2) a relatively high need for fossil fuels during the 

scenarios. Under the former, our assessments were premised on there being stronger measures and 

use of products and services, and (3) high sales volume within the Group. The businesses we 

regulations for decarbonization envisioned by the IPCC’s RCP 2.6 scenario. By assuming somewhat 

selected using these criteria were railway systems, power generation and power grids, IT systems, 

tighter regulations and an earlier target date for CO2 reductions, we can prepare ourselves for the 

industrial equipment, automotive systems, and construction machinery. Our assessment of the major 

1.5°C scenario. Under the latter, we focused on there being increased climate-induced natural 

climate-related risks and opportunities for these businesses are outlined in the following table:

disasters as a result of lax regulations, as projected by the RCP 8.5 scenario.

The Business Environment, Major Risks and Opportunities, and Strategies under the 2°C and 4°C Scenarios

Target businesses

Railway systems

Power generation and power grids

IT systems

Industrial equipment

Automotive systems

Construction machinery

Business environment: Global demand for 
transport systems that emit less CO2 per 
distance covered will grow with tighter CO2 
emission regulations in each country and 
region

Business environment: Global demand for 
electricity generated from renewable energy, 
nuclear power, and other non-fossil sources 
will grow with tighter CO2 emission 
regulations in each country and region. 
Power networks will increasingly 
accommodate natural energy produced 
through distributed generation.

The business 
environment and 
major risks and 
opportunities under 
the 2°C scenario

Risks: Competitiveness will decline if there 
are delays in the development of innovative 
emission-reducing technologies, including 
those to improve the efficiency of railway 
services through digital utilization, such as 
dynamic headway (flexible operation in 
response to passenger demand)  as well as 
new mobility services like MaaS

Risks: Delays in the construction of power 
networks enabling the mass introduction of 
renewable energy with large output 
fluctuations

Business environment: Demand for 
energy-saving, high-efficiency IT solutions 
will grow with tighter CO2 emission 
regulations in each country and region. 
There will also be a jump in demand for data 
centers and data analysis systems to 
accommodate the expansion of such 
financial services as investments and loans 
for decarbonization businesses and green 
bond issues, as well as of data utilization 
businesses.

Risks: Competitiveness will decline if there 
are delays in the development of 
technologies and human capital to offer 
energy-saving, high-efficiency IT solutions; 
shortages in human capital; and slow 
implementation of decarbonization 
measures for energy-consuming data 
centers

Business environment: Global demand for 
energy-saving industrial equipment will grow 
with tighter CO2 emission regulations in 
each country and region

Business environment: Electric vehicles 
will rapidly spread with tighter laws and 
regulations on fuel efficiency and 
environmental standards, and increases in 
fossil fuel prices. Markets for alternative, 
non-fossil technologies like hydrogen and 
biofuel vehicles will expand. The number of 
countries and regions with near zero sales 
of internal combustion engine vehicles will 
increase.

Business environment: Demand for 
electric and low/no carbon-fuel construction 
machinery will grow with tighter laws and 
regulations on the use of fossil fuels. 
Environmental regulations for items other 
than CO2 emissions (air and noise pollution, 
etc.) will grow tighter in urban areas.

Risks: Competitiveness will decline if there 
are delays in the development of high-
efficiency, low-loss products

Risks: Failure to transition to a new 
business environment of rapidly declining 
sales of internal combustion engine vehicles

Opportunities:  Demand will grow for 
railways, which emit less CO2 per distance 
covered. There will be a shift to energy-
saving railcars from conventional models, 
and the efficiency of railway services will be 
improved through digital utilization. Data 
usage will also boost demand for new 
mobility services.

Business environment: Demand for 
electric-powered transport will gradually 
increase even without tighter energy 
regulations. Damage from typhoons, floods, 
and other natural disasters caused by 
climate change will rise sharply.

Opportunities: Business opportunities will 
grow with rising demand for renewable 
energy—the key to a decarbonized future—
and with the provision of grid solutions, 
digital service solutions, and energy 
platforms that can accommodate the 
diversification of energy suppliers

Business environment: The cost 
competitiveness of non-fossil energy will 
increase, and demand for renewable, 
nuclear, and other non-fossil energy will 
increase as the expansion of energy 
consumption pushes up the price of fossil 
fuels. Natural disasters caused by climate 
change will rise sharply.

Opportunities: Demand will grow for 
energy-saving and high-efficiency 
information systems that contribute to 
zero-emissions. There will also be increased 
demand for platforms to offer such 
environment-related financial services as 
investments and loans for decarbonization 
businesses and green bond issues.

Business environment: Demand for new, 
high-efficiency technology will expand as 
multiplex IT systems in response to natural 
disaster BCPs will result in increased energy 
consumption. Demand will also grow for 
social and public systems to reduce 
damage from natural disasters.

Opportunities: Utilization of IoT, 
digitalization, and connected systems to 
develop innovative products and solutions 
that contribute to CO2 emission reductions 
without relying on the energy-saving 
features of individual products

Business environment: Typhoons, floods, 
and other natural disasters caused by 
climate change will rise sharply

Opportunities: Markets for alternative, 
non-fossil technologies like electric, 
hydrogen, and biofuel vehicles will expand

Business environment: Fuel efficiency laws 
and regulations will remain lax globally, and 
internal combustion engine vehicles will 
remain a major mode of transport. The 
modal shift will be slow, as conventional 
automobiles and motorcycles will remain 
predominant. Typhoons, floods, and other 
natural disasters caused by climate change 
will rise sharply.

The business 
environment and 
major risks and 
opportunities under 
the 4°C scenario

Risks: Higher development costs, lost 
markets due to slow response, and higher 
costs in building customer support for the 
use of electric and low/no carbon fuel 
machinery. Loss of customers due to the 
short range of electric machinery and lack 
of fueling and power-storage infrastructure 
for low/no carbon fuel machinery. Declining 
demand due to divestment of major coal 
companies.

Opportunities: Sales and sale opportunities 
for electric machinery, a broader diversity of 
fuel types, and digital applications will 
increase as companies turn to new 
technologies and adapt to new site 
environments

Business environment: Natural disasters 
caused by climate change will rise sharply, 
boosting demand for construction 
machinery to support speedy and safe 
recovery efforts

Continued on next page

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

43

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Target businesses

Railway systems

Power generation and power grids

IT systems

Industrial equipment

Automotive systems

Construction machinery

The business 
environment and 
major risks and 
opportunities under 
the 4°C scenario

Risks: The high frequency of natural 
disasters will exacerbate damage to 
production facilities, worsen working 
environments, and disrupt supply chains, 
leading to delays in deliveries and the 
procurement of parts

Risks: The high frequency of natural disasters 
will increase damage to power generation and 
transmission/distribution facilities, hamper efforts 
to restore power transmission/distribution, and 
disrupt supply chains, leading to delays in 
deliveries and the procurement of parts

Opportunities: Transport systems more 
resilient to natural disasters can be developed. 
Competitiveness can be enhanced by providing 
added value in such forms as energy-saving 
railcars and adaptability to new technologies.

Opportunities: Energy demand will grow as 
warmer weather leads to increased use of 
air conditioning. Demand will increase for 
disaster-resilient power generation and 
transmission/distribution technologies.

Risks: Natural disasters will exacerbate 
damage to production facilities, worsen 
working environments, and disrupt supply 
chains, leading to delays in deliveries and 
the procurement of parts

Risks: Natural disasters will exacerbate 
damage to production facilities, worsen 
working environments, and disrupt supply 
chains, leading to delays in deliveries and 
the procurement of parts

Opportunities: Demand will increase for 
social and public systems that help reduce 
damage from natural disasters and for IT 
systems required as part of a BCP

Opportunities: Efforts to accommodate IoT 
products will lead to higher demand for 
remote control and remote maintenance 
during natural disasters

Risks: Natural disasters will exacerbate damage 
to production facilities and disrupt supply chains, 
leading to delays in deliveries and the 
procurement of parts. A breakdown in one link 
of the supply chain will have an increasingly 
severe impact on production overall.

Risks: Natural disasters will exacerbate 
damage to production facilities, worsen 
working environments, and disrupt supply 
chains, leading to delays in deliveries and 
the procurement of parts

Opportunities: Demand will grow for 
technologies to enhance the efficiency of 
internal combustion engines

Opportunities: Infrastructure projects to 
prevent and mitigate disasters and support 
recovery efforts will increase

Non-environmental 
market factors 
(neither the 2°C nor 
4°C scenario) 

Responses to future 
business risks 
(business 
opportunities)

  Economic growth will lead to urbanization 
and population growth around the world, 
driving the railway business globally as an 
efficient form of public transport for large 
numbers of passengers, regardless of 
climate conditions. Market size in Japan 
will remain flat, but the Asian market 
overall will see substantial growth.

  Long-distance transport will decline going 
forward as the global pandemic restricts 
travel and encourages remote work. The 
decline in demand, though, will not be as 
severe as that for air transport.

  Competition will grow as major railway 
manufacturers in various countries will 
expand their business to meet global 
demand

Response to business risks under 2°C or 
4°C scenario
  Continue to strengthen the railway 

business, as global demand for railways 
will increase under either scenario

  Specifically, develop and market more 
energy-saving railcars and battery-
powered railcars for non-electrified 
sections. Strengthen railway services 
through digital utilization, such as dynamic 
headway (flexible operation in response to 
passenger demand), and new mobility 
services like MaaS.

  Given the increasing frequency of natural 
disasters, take risk aversion into account 
when deciding the location and equipment 
layout of a new plant. Keep an eye on the 
supply chain in strengthening our ability to 
respond to business disruption risks in 
accordance with our BCPs.

  Economic growth, urbanization, and 

  Further digitization globally will 

population growth will push up demand for 
energy, especially electricity, mainly in 
developing countries

  Energy supply and demand will diversify 

due to various factors, such as CO2 
emissions, environmental burden, 
economic performance, safety, and supply 
stability

  Digital technology will be further applied to 
enhance the stability and efficiency of the 
power supply

exponentially increase the volume of data 
circulated, accumulated, and analyzed. 
Experience with the global pandemic will 
prompt a shift to remote, noncontact, and 
online formats, both in our life and work, 
and boost demand for solutions that 
facilitate such a shift.

  Digitalization, infrastructure renewal, 

population decline, and worker shortages 
will expand the automation market in 
industrial countries

  As the global pandemic forces people to 
stay at or work from home, demand will 
grow for factory automation enabling a 
handful of workers to operate a factory

  New services and businesses utilizing big 
data, IoT, AI, and other digital technology 
will expand rapidly

  The industrial market in emerging 

economies will grow due to a rise in 
production plants

Response to business risks under 2°C or 
4°C scenario
  Continue to enhance response to relevant 

markets in view of expected higher demand 
for non-fossil energy under either scenario
  Strengthen the provision of grid solutions, 

digital service solutions, and energy 
platforms that can accommodate the 
increased use of renewable energy and 
diversification of energy supply and demand 
management 

  Given the increasing frequency of natural 

disasters, develop technologies for disaster-
resilient renewable energy systems and 
disruption-resistant power transmission/
distribution systems. Take risk aversion into 
account when deciding the location and 
equipment layout of a new production plant. 
Keep an eye on the supply chain in 
strengthening our ability to respond to 
business disruption risks in accordance with 
our BCPs.

Response to business risks under 2°C or 
4°C scenario
  Continue to develop innovative digital 

technologies, nurture necessary human 
capital, and enhance digital service 
solutions that generate new value in view 
of expected growth in society’s demand 
and markets for digital services under 
either scenario

  Specifically, enhance competitiveness by 

providing energy-saving and high-
efficiency IT solutions that contribute to 
zero-emissions; platforms for expanded 
environment-related financial services for 
decarbonization businesses; social and 
public systems to prevent natural 
disasters, reduce damage, and enhance 
resilience; and IT systems for BCPs

  Given the increasing frequency of natural 

disasters, strengthen our ability to respond 
to business disruption risks in accordance 
with our BCPs

Response to business risks under 2°C or 
4°C scenario
  Under either scenario, continue developing 
energy-saving, high-efficiency products 
that use IoT technology. Focus particularly 
on connected products with 
communication features. Miniaturized, 
high-efficiency, low-loss products can also 
help reduce CO2 emissions.

  Given the increasing frequency of natural 
disasters, take risk aversion into account 
when deciding the location and equipment 
layout of a new plant. Keep an eye on the 
supply chain in strengthening our ability to 
respond to business disruption risks in 
accordance with our BCPs.

  Economic growth, urbanization, population 
growth, and infrastructure development 
like road construction will expand the 
global market for automobiles as a flexible 
and personal means of transport

  The global pandemic may temporarily 

dampen passenger vehicle sales due to 
restrictions on people’s movement, but 
commercial vehicle sales appear to be 
rising as need for goods delivery increases

  Non-environmental functions like 

autonomous driving and advanced safety 
features that promote safety, security, and 
comfort will drive competitiveness

  Worker shortages will be addressed through 
further labor savings, automation, remote 
work, and the development of safety-related 
products and solutions

  Products, services, and solutions (such as 
CO2-free machines/attachments suited for 
work at dismantling sites, in narrow spaces, 
and underground) will be further developed 
to meet the needs of smart infrastructure 
building amid rapid urbanization

  Emerging economies with expanding 
markets represent both increased sale 
opportunities and intensifying competition 
with emerging manufacturers

  There is a need for stronger total supply 
chain management to accommodate 
shifting demand and for enhanced 
resilience of the business portfolio

Response to business risks under 2°C 
scenario
  Promote R&D of electrification technology 

Response to business risks under 2°C 
scenario
  Advance product development with an 

and other alternative technologies to 
enhance response to new markets, such 
as for electric vehicles

Response to business risks under 4°C scenario
  Promote R&D and product development in 
existing technologies, including internal 
combustion engines, to not only improve 
energy efficiency but increase such 
non-environmental value as safety, security, 
and comfort

  Given the increasing frequency of natural 
disasters, take risk aversion into account 
when deciding the location and equipment 
layout of a new plant. Keep an eye on the 
supply chain in strengthening our ability to 
respond to business disruption risks in 
accordance with our BCPs.

eye on trends in electrification and low/no 
carbon fuel to minimize development and 
product costs

  Build a system covering the entire value 

chain to work with and support the 
education of maintenance staff engaged in 
new technologies to accommodate 
customer requests for servicing and rentals

Response to business risks under 4°C scenario
  Promote the development and manufacture 
of innovative products and solutions that 
enable a speedy recovery from disasters
  Given the increasing frequency of natural 
disasters, take risk aversion into account 
when deciding the location and equipment 
layout of a new plant. Keep an eye on the 
supply chain in strengthening our ability to 
respond to business disruption risks in 
accordance with our BCPs.

Financial information
(sales volume of 
each target sector)

Impact on part of ¥580.3 billion in railway 
systems business sales (FY 2019)

Impact on part of ¥399.2 billion in Energy 
Sector sales (FY 2019)

Impact on part of ¥2,099.4 billion in IT 
Sector sales (FY 2019)

Impact on part of ¥424 billion in Industry 
Sector’s industrial products business sales 
(FY 2019)

Impact on part of ¥811.6 billion in 
automotive business (Hitachi Automotive 
Systems) sales (FY 2019)

Impact on part of ¥931.3 billion in 
construction machinery business (Hitachi 
Construction Machinery) sales (FY 2019)

We believe that by paying close attention to market trends and developing our business flexibly and strategically, we have high climate resilience in the medium to long term under either the 2°C or 4°C scenario

Note: The above scenario analyses are not future projections but attempts to examine our resilience to climate change. How the future unfolds may be quite different from any of these scenarios.

Contents

Introduction

Management

Environmental

Social

Governance

Assurance

Hitachi Sustainability Report 2020

44

Achieving a Decarbonized Society

Risk Management 

Structure 

The Hitachi Group evaluates and monitors climate-related risks for each business unit and Group 

company as part of a process of assessing risks and opportunities in accordance with the 

Environmental Action Plan, updated every three years. The results are tabulated by the 

Sustainability Promotion Division of Hitachi, Ltd., and their importance is checked at Sustainability 

Promotion Meetings. Those risks and opportunities perceived as being particularly important for the 

Group as a whole are deliberated by the Executive Sustainability Committee, chaired by the 

president and CEO of Hitachi, Ltd. 

Metrics and Targets 

Goals

Our environmental activities are managed through the Environmental Action Plan, whose metrics and 

targets are updated every three years, including those to measure and manage climate-related risks 

and opportunities.

We use the reduction rate of CO2 emissions per unit compared to fiscal 2010 to set targets and 

monitor progress across our many Group products and services in the value chain. Under the current 

Environmental Action Plan for 2021 (covering fiscal 2019–2021) as well, we have established annual 

targets and monitor progress for each business unit and Group company.

Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3) across our value chain are 

calculated based on GHG Protocol standards, and we have published annual figures since fiscal 

2012. Given the nature of our business, some 90% of our total CO2 emissions come from the use of 

sold products in Scope 3. CO2 emissions can fluctuate greatly, though, due to changes in sales 

volume and our business portfolio. To advance CO2 reductions during the use of sold products and 

services, therefore, we set targets and monitor progress for the reduction rate of CO2 emissions per 

unit. In other words, for products and services featuring equivalent value, we focus on metrics to 

provide customers and society with those that emit less CO2. At the same time, we will make an 

exerted effort to not only reduce per unit but also total CO2 emissions from our business sites 

(factories and offices).

Environmental Action Plan for 2021 
(Fiscal 2019–2021) 

GHG Emissions Throughout the Value Chain 

